Clustering local authorities in the UK- Cluster descriptions
Global model:
Glob_A: This cluster is made up of predominantly rural local authorities, all ITL1 regions aside from London are represented in this cluster and all but 3 Northern Irish local authorities are in this cluster. Local authorities in this cluster have high well-being scores, a high proportion of workers in the manufacturing sector, low ethnic diversity, a low working age population and low CO2 emissions.
Glob_B: A mixture of urban and rural local authorities are contained in this cluster, the cluster is generally situated in the commuter belt around major urban centres with the South East and East most represented. Local authorities in this cluster have a high employment rate, a low proportion of children in relative poverty and high healthy life expectancy.
Glob_C: Containing mostly urban local authorities, this cluster includes many of the past industrial heartlands of the UK, every ITL1 region aside from London is represented here but the cluster is less prevalent in the South of England than in other regions. Local authorities in this cluster have a low healthy life expectancy, low domestic electricity consumption, a high proportion of children in relative poverty and a low rate of level 3+ qualifications.
Glob_D: This cluster includes local authorities in major urban centres, most of these local authorities are in London which is almost completely within this cluster, but a few other ITL1 regions are also represented. Local authorities in this cluster are ethnically diverse, have a high working age population, high CO2 emissions, high GVA, high house prices and low well-being scores.

Economic model:
Econ_A: This cluster contains a combination of urban and rural local authorities, it is most prevalent in the North, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland but it contains local authorities from every ITL1 region. Local authorities in this cluster have a high proportion of children in relative poverty, low GVA, low employment rate, low income, low house prices and high business births.
Econ_B: This cluster is comprised of a mixture of rural and urban local authorities, this cluster is most prevalent in the East Midlands, West Midlands, East and Scotland. Local authorities in this cluster have high construction and manufacturing employment, low business births and a high employment rate.
Econ_C: Local authorities in this cluster are largely urban with some rural and mostly located in the commuter belt around the South East, East and London, although there are a few local authorities included outside these regions. Local authorities in this cluster have a high employment rate, high house prices, moderately high income and high GVA.
Econ_D: Local authorities in this cluster are predominantly urban and most of the local authorites are in London and the South East. Local authorities in this cluster have very high GVA, very high house prices, a high rate of businesses and a higher than average employment in the services sector. These local authorities also had low employment in the manufacturing sector and a low percentage of children in poverty.

Demographic model:
Demo_A: Local authorities in this cluster are largely rural and every ITL1 region in the country is represented aside from London. Local authorities in this cluster have a lower population density, an older population, low ethnic diversity and have a population which is growing more slowly than the national average.
Demo_B: This cluster includes rural and urban local authorities, local authorities in this cluster are often situated in commuter belts around larger urban areas and almost all of Northern Ireland is included in this cluster. Local authorities in this cluster have a high under 16 population and are growing in population faster than average.
Demo_C: This cluster is centred on Scotland and Wales, with some English local authorities. For England and Wales it is made up of largely urban areas, but the Scottish local authorities are largely rural. These authorities have a less religious population, higher population density and a high proportion of white residents.
Demo_D: Largely located in major urban areas, the majority of the local authorities in this cluster are in London, with a few other local authorities spread around England and no representation of the other nations. These areas are ethnically diverse, with an above average religious population, very high population density, a high proportion of working age residents and a low proportion of older residents.

Health and well-being model:
Health_A: This is a cluster of predominantly urban local authorities, with London being the most represented ITL1 region, only 1 local authority outside of England is in this cluster. Local authorities in this cluster have low well-being scores and a higher than average proportion of smokers.
Health_B: This cluster includes a mixture of rural and urban local authorities, every ITL1 region is represented in this cluster with a particularly high proportion of local authorities in Scotland and the North East. Local authorities within this cluster have low healthy life expectancy, moderately low life satisfaction scores and a high proportion of cigarette smokers.
Health_C: This cluster contains a mixture of rural and urban local authorities, every ITL1 region aside from North East is represented and it is most prevalent in the South West, South East and East. Local authorities in this cluster moderately high anxiety scores, fewer smoking residents and high healthy life expectancy.
Health_D: Local authorities in this cluster are largely rural and every ITL1 region across the UK aside from Yorkshire and The Humber is present within it, more than half of the local authorities in Northern Ireland are included in this cluster. Local authorities in this cluster are categorised by very low anxiety, high happiness and high life satisfaction scores.

Connectivity and sustainability model:
Con_A: Cluster of largely rural areas, includes values in all ITL1 regions except Northern Ireland and London. Local authorities in this cluster have far below average gigabit capable broadband coverage, below average emissions, below average train commuters and high domestic energy consumption.
Con_B: A mixture of rural and urban areas across the UK, this is a large cluster which contains over half of the local authorities in Northern Ireland, Wales, North West, North East, West Midlands and East Midlands. Local authorities in this cluster have above average gigabit capable broadband and CO2 emissions and are below average in all sustainable transport metrics.
Con_C: Largely local authorities in the commuter belt around London and Glasgow, this cluster contains local authorities from Scotland, London, East and South East only. Local authorities in this cluster have a low proportion of commuters by foot, a very high proportion of commuters by train, high CO2 emissions and very high electricity consumption.
Con_D: This cluster is largely made up of local authorities in urban centres, spread across the country with only the North East unrepresented. Local authorities in this cluster have low domestic energy consumption, high proportions of workers travelling by bike or on-foot, very high CO2 emissions and very high gigabit capable broadband coverage.
